---
published: true
title: Budget Cuts in the BSD
slug: 2025-budget-cuts
date: 2025-05-06T00:00:00.000Z
authors:
  - title: William Yoon
description: Budget Cuts in the Bellevue School District
---



On February 6th, 2025, Dr. Aramaki, superintendent of the Bellevue School District, announced that the district would have to cut school funding by $20 million because of a budget deficit. Bellevue is not the only district experiencing a budget crisis. All over Washington, school districts are facing massive budget deficits forcing them to cut programs and staff. In Redmond, the Lake Washington School District reduced its 7 period day to a 6 period day. Seattle Public Schools is facing a $94 million shortfall and needs to consolidate its schools, make cuts, and change school bell times.

On March 13th, 2025, the BSD School Board voted on the final proposition of the projected budget cuts, and at the end of the day, the school board voted to keep some programs and cut others. So how is this going to affect us as students and what does the future look like?

Let’s start with why we have this problem. Dr. Aramaki called this issue the perfect storm. In other words, there is not just one cause of the budget crisis but a number of problems that have built up at the same time and exacerbated one another. The biggest problem by far is the fact that Washington state is cutting school funding. Following the covid pandemic, student needs have been higher than ever, leading to programs for student health such as MHAT (Mental Health Assistance Team) counselors who focus solely on student’s mental health. However, the state does not provide funding for these counselors. As student needs go up, state funding does not go up with it; in fact, funding is going down as the state itself faces a deficit. Another reason for the budget shortfall is the economy as inflation has clearly been rising, and there is no debate that the economy is struggling more than ever right now. Because of this, the costs to maintain school programs have only increased, meaning more spending is needed. Not only has covid increased student needs, it has led to a significant decrease in student enrollment as certain students and parents choose alternatives to public schools. Another interesting new policy that affects school funding is the cap on local levy dollars. In short, local levy dollars are how much funding a school district is able to fundraise. This past year the BSD raised 16 million in local levy dollars, but the cap on it employed by the state meant that only a portion of that 16 million dollars could actually be used for funding. 

This year’s budget crisis is especially important, as the Bellevue School District has never faced a shortage of this scale before. Dr. Aramaki described the school district's current status as living paycheck to paycheck. He said that to pay the bills effectively as a school district you need 30-40 million left in the bank per year. However, since the Covid-19 pandemic, BSD has been spending 10 million more than the state provides. Thus the BSD savings account has been slowly dwindling from 30 million to 20 million to 17 million and finally to 8 million, and at this point, something has to change or else BSD would go into serious debt. 

 	What is the proposed plan and how will it affect us as students? There are different parts to this plan which are both good and bad. The good news is that this will largely not affect the students as much as it seems. The largest cuts to the budget won’t be the classes we take or the programs we go to but smaller things that happen in the background. So the programs that students advocated for, such as clubs, sports, 7-period days, IB/AP/AL programs, CTE classes, language classes, and music courses will all stay in our BSD schools. However, Dr. Aramaki noted that classes that are smaller in size and have less attendance will not be offered the following year and classes will generally be larger this year. The biggest difference will be the change from 20 MHAT counselors to 5 MHAT counselors. This past year BSD had 20 MHAT counselors that were spread across every single highschool. However, this year that number will move down to 5: 0ne for every highschool and 1 shared between the 2 choice schools (Big Picture & International). On a more personal note, I have tons of friends that often use these counselors for guidance, help, and all of the above, and to downsize the counselors will lead to serious effects that will be felt by the students. This number was originally going to be just 4 counselors, but after hearing student testimony the board and Dr. Aramaki decided that 5 would be needed. 

So what can we as students do? There’s a big three that every single superintendent in Washington is advocating for: guaranteed transportation, funding for materials, supplies, and operating costs (MSOC), and funding for special education. There’s been a bill for all three, but the only bills that are alive right now are Bill 5192 for MSOC funding and Bill 5263 for special education. These bills both have passed the senate and are being deliberated on in the house. If these bills pass, that means the state would guarantee funding in these areas. One action that students can take is to go to the town halls and support these bills whenever they are being shown and vote in favor of these bills. Having a bill with a large pro-selection sends a message to legislators that the people want these bills in place (when these bills are being decided can be found on <https://wak12.org/>). We can talk to legislators personally and interact with them personally, an example being our very own Interlake Robotics team who invited legislators to their competition and were able to show them the value of funding by demonstrating the different skills robotics brings. 

So how are we going to make sure this never happens again? This crisis has led to a complete revamping in the way the BSD central office works, by downsizing and changing leadership in the finance sector. Additionally, having more transparency to the school board is something that the central office is going to work on as the board is the one that controls the budget levels. By providing them with more information on student life and necessary funding, BSD can acquire more funding if necessary.

	Lastly, Dr. Aramaki wants to send a direct message to the workers of BSD, the parents of BSD, and the students of BSD. He wants us to have hope for the future, as the district has been through much harder crises like the COVID-19 pandemic, yet we’ve been able to come through it stronger than ever. Even if it’s not going to be exactly the same, the future is bright for the Bellevue School District, and he is confident that we as a community will be able to create an environment that parents want their kids to attend and to grow in.
