---
published: true
title: Diverse Immigrants of Interlake High School
slug: 2024-IHS-Immigrations
date: 2025-05-06T00:00:00.000Z
authors:
  - title: Rohan Badgandi
description: Immigrants in IHS
---



Walk through the halls of Interlake High School between classes and besides English you might hear Spanish, Chinese-Mandarin, Telugu, Hindi, Russian, Vietnamese, Hebrew, or Marathi, and those are just the top ten languages represented in our student body. One of the things that makes Interlake such a unique and special place is that we are a school of immigrants from all over the world. The story of our school contains multitudes of stories from all corners of the globe. To know some of those stories, and therefore ourselves, better, we decided to interview some recent Interlake immigrants. Note: we have decided to use initials in this article to maintain anonymity and privacy.

Our interviewees hail from Venezuela, Guatemala, Russia, and Nicaragua – in other words, many different parts of the globe—and in moving to the United States, there are all kinds of new things that they had to get used to, a primary one being the weather. One common reaction to the barometric phenomenon known as the ‘Seattle Drizzle’ is that they all miss the climate of their home countries. “I miss the weather in Nicaragua – almost every day would be sunny,” says J. G and M commiserate about the breezy weather in Venezuela. “Where we lived, it used to be a little cold or a little hot, but over here it’s not hot in summer and it snows in winter.”

Many also miss their families and friends, along with other aspects of life in their home countries. “We both miss our friends,” say G and M “and the food in Venezuela. The hot dogs over here are… so bad! They don’t have anything in them! In Venezuela they have things like capsicum, cheese, potatoes… over here, it’s just flat.” When asked if living away from their immediate family had led them to grow closer as siblings, G and M both immediately replied “No, we still hate each other!” albeit with a laugh (some things, it seems, never change). 

Leaving home is hard, and there are a number of different reasons that immigrants move to the United States. “I was motivated to continue my studies, to help my family,” D explains. “I’m planning to study to be an elementary teacher. When I was in Guatemala, I took care of some of my cousins and taught them some things, and even if they didn’t get it, after some explaining they would understand… that’s the motivation for me, I want to teach kids how to learn.” B, G, and M, meanwhile, cited the current instability of their home countries of Russia and Venezuela. G says “We moved here mostly because of the economic crisis in Venezuela, and the hyperinflation, and the economy is in chaos because of the dictatorship. Everything is expensive, you can buy nothing.  When you want to get gasoline for the car, sometimes our mother had to stay in line for one week just to get half a tank, because there’s a shortage. I have a friend who worked as a security guard and he only made $1 a week, and $1 a week is nothing because everything is expensive, so… we had to go. We have family who said they could help us, so we came here.” 

Whatever the reason for leaving home, many immigrants find that life in the U.S. isn’t necessarily what they had expected. “I felt weird in the beginning, just, everything was weird. It took me, like, a year and a half to get used to it,” says J. “People always tell you ‘Oh, life in the United States is easy! You get a lot of money!’ and things like that,” D explains, “and you *can* have that, but it’s hard. It’s not easy. It’s possible, but it’s hard.” In a similar vein, B addressed the illusion of the American Dream: “There are a lot of dreams about what ‘American life’ is like, and it’s not actually like that.” One of the big challenges to adjusting to life in the United States is learning English. “It’s hard, at the beginning, when you come here, to communicate with people,” says D. “I feel like… I think I need to learn more English. I like to listen to music in English, so that helps.” J, G, and M agree: “Learning the language is difficult. You have to learn so much stuff by heart. It’s hard,” and B elaborates that “…learning English has been hard. In Russia, we only have English lessons two, three times a week, and they teach it like a second language, and I don’t think you can actually learn English that way. I think I only improved because of my environment, because I had to talk to people in English.” 

It's even harder if you consider that, as D reveals, many of Interlake’s recent immigrants are juggling schoolwork with a job. “You know all of us are working, and we’re always tired, so we have to come to school and go to work and then go back home and do homework.”

 Given the challenges immigrant students face, there are things that Interlake can do to help them thrive, and almost everyone expressed a desire for the same thing: patience. As D states “I think I would like more understanding when it comes to… for example, if I’m coming late to class, like first period, you know we’re always tired because we’re working. So I think they should have more consideration if we’re coming late, because if you’re tired… you don’t want to wake up early in the morning.” “Be more patient with the students,” B agrees, and J expresses a similar desire: “Maybe have more patience with people who are still learning English. Some people laugh at us because they think we’re different… I think I’d like more respect from other students.” However, despite their acknowledgement of ways in which Interlake could improve, our interviewees remain grateful for the support Interlake and the Bellevue School District provide. “Our counselors and everyone, they’re great,” G says with a smile. “We think they support us really well.” 

Overall, our immigrant students believe that sharing stories can foster more empathy toward both immigrants and towards other people in general. “When they hear our stories, maybe they’ll think differently about us,” J says, candidly. “We have good people here. And some people are bad, but… we’re just people. I think it’s really important to understand other people’s experiences.” “I think it is important,” D says, “because you have your story inside you, and if you take it out and someone wants to hear that story, I think that’s amazing. I think that could make a real difference.” “It shows people the difficulties we’re going through,” M adds. B agrees, with a condition: “If they *can*, if they *want* to, then yes. Just so more people know what some have gone through, and what some people have to go through.” D says “I just want to share that I’m grateful for all the people that have helped me to get here, because if they hadn’t helped me, I wouldn’t be here.”
